Sweet and sour chicken is a popular dish in Chinese cuisine, as well as in many other countries. It consists of crispy fried chicken pieces coated with a tangy and sweet sauce, usually made with vinegar, sugar, ketchup, and soy sauce. Bamboo shoots are the edible young shoots of the bamboo plant, which have a crunchy texture and a mild flavor. They are often used in Asian dishes, such as stir-fries, soups, and salads. In this recipe, we will use fresh bamboo shoots, which need to be peeled and boiled before cooking. Alternatively, you can use canned or frozen bamboo shoots, which are already cooked and ready to use.
To make this dish, you will need the following ingredients:
1 pound of boneless, skinless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1/4 cup of cornstarch
Salt and pepper, to taste
2 tablespoons of vegetable oil
1/4 cup of white vinegar
1/4 cup of brown sugar
2 tablespoons of ketchup
1 tablespoon of soy sauce
1 teaspoon of garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon of red pepper flakes (optional)
1/4 cup of water
2 cups of fresh bamboo shoots, peeled and sliced (or canned or frozen bamboo shoots, drained and rinsed)
2 tablespoons of chopped green onions
2 teaspoons of sesame seeds
To prepare the chicken, place the cornstarch in a shallow dish and season it with salt and pepper. Coat the chicken pieces with the cornstarch, shaking off any excess. Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Fry the chicken in batches until golden and crisp, turning once, for about 10 minutes. Transfer the chicken to a paper towel-lined plate and keep warm.
To make the sauce, in a small saucepan over medium heat, whisk together the vinegar, sugar, ketchup, soy sauce, garlic powder, red pepper flakes (if using), and water. Bring the sauce to a boil, then reduce the heat and simmer until slightly thickened, stirring occasionally, for about 15 minutes.
To cook the bamboo shoots, bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the bamboo shoots and cook until tender, for about 20 minutes. Drain and set aside.
To serve, arrange the chicken on a large platter. Pour the sauce over the chicken and toss to coat. Sprinkle with the green onions and sesame seeds. Serve with the bamboo shoots on the side or mixed with the chicken.
This dish is not very common for serving on the Christmas table, but it can be a nice alternative if you want to try something different and exotic. Chicken in sweet and sour sauce with bamboo shoots is a dish that originated in China, but has been adapted and modified by many other cuisines around the world. It has a balance of sweet, sour, salty, and spicy flavors that can complement other dishes on the festive menu. Bamboo shoots are also a good source of fiber, vitamin C, and potassium, which can help you stay healthy during the winter season. If you want to make this dish more festive, you can add some red and green bell peppers, pineapple chunks, or cherries to the sauce, or garnish it with some fresh cilantro or parsley. You can serve this dish with rice, noodles, or bread, depending on your preference. I hope you enjoy this dish and have a wonderful and super Christmas!
